well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again we have a very interesting
development on the native rights front
in the United States the Cherokee Nation
wants to appoint a delegate to the House
of Representatives and by treaty they
can in 1835 the US government signed a
treaty with the Cherokee Nation and it
included a provision that allowed them
to appoint a delegate to the house now
this treaty eventually led to the Trail
of Tears for overseas viewers if you
don't know what it is google it it's
genocide on the move pretty horrible
horrible thing and also for overseas
viewers the relationship the federal
government has with indigenous cultures
is bizarre
it is almost because that's the way it's
supposed to be two sovereign nations
dealing with each other the Cherokee
Nation being its own nation dealing with
the federal government the United States
government and that's how it's supposed
to operate it doesn't always operate
that way because the US government has a
horrible track record of honoring
treaties with Native Nations they have
the ability to vote however
gerrymandering has severely limited
their voting power severely limited
their voting power the Cherokee Nation
is 350 to 375 thousand people it's a
huge voting bloc they're probably the
largest native nation altogether I know
they're the largest federally recognized
one so how would this play out how would
this play out is probably going to be a
non-voting member of the House which
means they can't vote on the House floor
but they can debate and they can
represent the issues of Native Nations
to the House of Representatives now
that's one of the criticisms
that only the Cherokee have this in one
of their treaties I think there may be a
couple of others but certainly not all
nations so the worry is that the
Cherokee will only represent themselves
I don't know that that's actually going
to be the case but that that's a worry
that that's going on the most likely
candidate to be sent up is Kimberly
teehee she's in charge of picture her
like the Secretary of State between the
Cherokee Nation and the US government
she's kind of the diplom act she's the
front-runner on that now will this
happen I think so
probably but it's going to take a while
but it's definitely worth the wait if
you have ever been to a native council
meeting or watched natives debate the
idea of native interests being
represented it represented on the House
floor is going to be great
it's gonna make c-span a whole lot more
interesting it is definitely worth the
wait and worth supporting anyway it's
just a thought y'all have a good day